# COVID19-CVD_data
scRNA-seq data were obtained from a published dataset11 The data file (in ‘rds’ format) downloaded from the cellxgene Data Portal (https://cellxgene.Cziscience .com /datasets) were read into R (version 4.2.1) session. Quality control was performed using Seurat (v3.1.5) to identify and filter out low-quality cells based on mitochondrial content and performing data preprocessing to prepare the data for downstream analysis. Cells with a percentage of mitochondrial genes greater than 10% were considered low quality and were filtered out. Prior to downstream analysis, the dataset was scaled and centered using “NormalizeData” and “ScaleData” functions. As the focus was on NK cells and monocytes and comparison between severe and control groups, specific subsets of scRNA-seq data set were separated and merged based on their metadata. The reanalysis included the standard Seurat workflow with “RunPCA“ and the number of Principle component analysis (PCA) dimensions used was 30, with a resolution parameter of 0.5. An elbow plot was generated to determine the optimal number of principal components for downstream analysis. UMAP plots were generated to visualize the cell clusters and identify potential subpopulations. After the cell clusters had been obtained, the Differentially expressed genes (DEG) in each cluster was computed with ‘FindAllMarkers’ (Table S4)12,13.  Marker genes were determined based on their average log-fold change (log2FC) and statistical significance (p-value and q-value). Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis was performed to gain insights into the biological processes associated with a set of genes of interest. The analysis was carried out using the clusterProfiler package in R (version 4.2.1)13. The significance threshold for enriched GO terms was set at a p-value cutoff of 0.05, and the Benjamini-Hochberg method was applied for multiple testing correction using GO terms with a q-value (adjusted p-value) below 0.05 were considered statistically significant.  Cytoscape software (version 3.10.0) was used to visualize significant GO terms and integrate the GO terms to create a GO pathway network. For the DEGs, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment was performed for the top 200 DEGs. Enrichment analysis of the converted Entrez IDs was conducted to determine the significant KEGG pathways associated with the DEGs. The enrichKEGG function from the clusterProfiler package was utilized, specifying the gene IDs and the organism of interest (Homo sapiens, organism code 'hsa')14. This function identified overrepresented pathways based on a hypergeometric test. We employed the cnetplot function, to show the hub genes and pathways enriched.
